But now what it also means is, okay,
added benefit that we can declare
our dataToView relationships once,
and when the data changes,
the view will update.
Well, that means,
which is important, right,
because remember our goal of UI,
what'd I say, display content to users and
for the user to be able
to change that content.
And I love the ambiguity of that because
it reminds us that that content is
what they see and should be
the underlying state of the world.
Because that's exactly what it's like in
the real world, when I change what I see,
I'm changing the underlying state
of the world, not in a computer.
But if they were to become a bit closer,
because we've described
that relationship one time and
it's used again and again,
we're getting a lot closer to
content being a united thing.
That the underlying data and
what you see, they are not separated.
Because we've described how the what
you see is dependent on data, and
it's only one place that's happening.
So they've kind of become tied, they've
kind of become bound to each other.
That can allow us to even trick
ourselves a little bit visually to think
that we've actually bound them together.
So let's see that in a second.
Remember our goals of UI, display content
online data as view, if that's the case,
make sure that the change of data just
propagates, just appears in the view.
Why would you want them to be separate if
you're saying you want to enable the user
to change what the content is they see,
implying changing
the underlying data as well?
Make them the same thing.
Things like web components are all about
trying to make them the same thing.
Okay, great, well, we're gonna
see we've almost done that here.
Enable the user to change the content,
both the data and what they see.
At least I'm predictable,
both the underlying data and
corresponding view of it.
We need to run the dataToView
converge on repeat.
But if we do that,
we essentially automate the process.
Here it is, so what have we changed here?
The only thing we have changed is we run
data review three different times here,
right, in response to initial no
user reaction, which is the first,
I guess before the user takes action,
then when user changes data, what sorry.
So even user action that's causing
it's whenever data changes and
user action is what
causes data change here.
It could be a server call.
It could be something else.
And of course,
it's going from the app not being on to
being on that is data changing, right?
That's data becoming undefined to begin.
So whenever data changes, dataToView must
run, including on initial data creation.
When we do that, the view updates two or
three times here.
Well, what if we just had it running so
often, that's a really slick move,
people, had it running so
often, every 15 milliseconds,
that we didn't even need to rerun it
in response after our chain of data.
Now in practice, I wanna make it
really clear, we couldn't do this,
it's gonna block, by the way, even some
of those handlers running, we need to,
sometimes it's only gonna block CS
animations and smooth scrolling.
All of which share a couple of
processes in the web browser,
completing tasks, but
share some of those processes.
We don't wanna have that blocked by
a function re-render our entire page every
15 milliseconds, 60 times a second.
However, and we'll find a way
around that with state hooks,
they're gonna give us the impression
we're doing it automatically,
running that update function
every 50 milliseconds.
Actually, it means we'll only run it when
we change data, which is what we do here,
but the problem is I don't have to
remember to run that data review.
I'm gonna change that data all over.
I don't have to run
data review every time.
What if just for a hack way for now, this
is a hot way just to get the fun of it.
We had it run so often that we didn't
actually need in, let's do it in green,
I think, we didn't actually need to run it
in here, we didn't actually need to run it
here, we didn't actually need to
run it here because it's running.
Basically, we finished running
change the data it would run here,
just because it's running
every 15 milliseconds.
Change the data, it would run here.
This would run as you
know 15 milliseconds in.
Here, it would run basically immediately
afterwards because set interval will take
in a function and
run it every 15 milliseconds,
meaning it will take in a function,
in this case, the dataToView function, and
store it in another feature
of the browser, it's timer.
And that is accessible by set interval and
set timeout.
Both of which allow us to pass
it a function definition.
In this case,
it's going to be dataToView our converter,
and say,
run it every 15 milliseconds back in here.
Therefore, it's obviously a horribly
brute force looping to make sure whenever
the data changes, but it's kinda badass.
Look at that, handleclick, change some
data, handleInput, change of data.
Don't ask anything else.
Just know that dataToView is
running on repeat right after
a hundreds of times before you can even,
whatever, fine.
However, it has now made our view
directly depend on our data,
our view and data have become bound.
Which given, we wanna change data and view
are the two parts of content that user
sees there's underlying data and
the pixels displayed of it,
putting them in one bucket so that they
are intrinsically tied, kinda cool.
And then only allow the user to change
the data that generates that view.
Don't worry people, we're going to move
away from a 50-millisecond repeat loop on
a function that renders the entire page.
However, for purposes of pedagogy,
very good excuse for
everything, browser implementation and
pedagogy,
which we'll see it here
allows us to make our few
depend propagate from
our data automatically.
We've added predictability to our data and
view flow.
Thousands of ways for
users to interact in a modern app.
Every piece of view, I guess every piece
of content, I quite like to use the term
content cuz it implies the view and the
data, on elemental page can be clicked,
typed, moused over, all of which need to
change content, data, and what we see.
I would say exponential complexity,
especially once you can have a flow of,
I need to reason about what was it like
when the user clicked as opposed to I
know what it was like,
it's whatever the data generated.
I don't even care.
I just say I don't even care.
I've written my code to well,
maybe I care somewhat,
I wrote my code to depend
only on input data.
Sorry, again, input not use word there.
Depend on our data in JavaScript,
there isn't sort of an input
to our dataToView conversion.
And by the way, in all of these things,
we then have edge cases where we introduce
workarounds that handle particular
situations where we can't
get it as simple as that.
We do care about the previous behavior,
we do need to track change over time and
things like that.
But as a starting point mental model or
design pattern, sorry,
we have huge value from this.
We need a predictable structure,
better to be restricted,
but predictable and overly flexible,
impossible to identify which bit of our
code cause our view and data to change.
So every interaction must change, jobs or
data and then update all dependent views.
Change the views via an update of data and
a run of our single dataToView function.
Now, again, in practice at scale,
we'd have many maybe dataToView functions.
And maybe we'd even need to
flow through those in some way,
a flow of data ordered through those,
some sort of rules for flowing data flows.
But for our purposes to keep it super,
I mean, as it is,
that's like 12 lines of code and
it's like a.
[COUGH] Anyway, one-way data
binding restricting all our users'
changes of flow to some corresponding
associated underlying data.
And all changes of view to flow
through a single converter
function called a render function,
a dataToView function.
A restrictive but
powerful step to simplify our reasoning
about user interface by
an order of magnitude.